[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Now we're going
to talk about how to make our own git
projects.
The easiest way of doing this.
Is, going back to your GitHub
account
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
clicking up in this little plus up here.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We're
gonna say we want a new repository.
So give it a name, GitHub suggest one.
So it's like how about you call this
Harry hairy-ninja, thanks, GitHub.
No spaces or funny characters in here.
And we talked about naming conventions.
So in HTML you name your
classes with dashes.
And that same naming convention
is usually used for git branches.
You can call them whatever you want.
But this is the most recognizable way.
So I'm gonna call this one
my-first-project.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Description
is optional.
This is important.
Public or private.
If your code is private,
public anyone can see it.
If you want your code to be private,
you have to pay for it.
It gets about five bucks a month.
But here's the important part.
You can have git initialize
this repository for you.
A git, a .gitignore, is a file that
tells git which files to ignore.
Let's say you have a text file and
you have a JavaScript file.
And the text file has your notes in it,
and
you don't want it cluttering
up the repository.
You'd create a .gitignore file and
say, ignore all txt files.
Now git has created a bunch of
.gitignores for you already.
Here's a huge list of them.
And this will, for example,
java generates a bunch of compiled files.
You usually don't want
them in your directory.
So you'll pick this java .gitignore and
GitHub will just put it there for you.
>> Speaker 2: The None one's good too,
we're actually gonna use the None one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
License is something you don't really
need to worry about right now,
but git provides a whole
bunch of licenses for you.
That it will also add back in.
So if you already have a git repository
locally, you don't wanna do this step.
And we're gonna skip it.
But I find it really helpful.
If you check this, git will just tell you
okay now git clone and
give you the address, of your new project.
But we're gonna leave this unchecked.
And we're right create repository,
GitHub will tell you this is how you
either create a new repository on
the command line that will be linked
to with this GitHub repository.
Or if you already have one
which you probably don't.
Here's how to sync it up with your GitHub.
So we're just going to go ahead and
follow these steps.
So we're gonna do this touch README.md.
And if you Windows people are using.
Git pass this should work.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
I'm going to make a new directory.
I'm just gonna do that in the finder,
so I'm gong to the desktop.
Calling it awesome cuz it's awesome.
So now I can change to
my directory awesome.
We'll see it's totally empty.
And I'm just going to copy
these commands from GitHub.
So.
I'm creating a new file now if I do an ls.
It's in that directory.
I'm running git init,
which will create a hidden .git directory.
And tell you that all right, here you go,
you have an empty git repository.
We do ls we won't see it.
We won't see this .git
folder because it's hidden.
Okay we're gonna add the README.md, and
then we're gonna do my first commit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here we see
the changes to be committed
are this read me file.
We're gonna copy that in.
Git is gonna tell us that
our commit has been done.
And this step is the important one.
It's kind of confusing.
But this step,
is telling your local repository
here's where the server lives, where
you're gonna push all your stuff back up.
And the sever is hosted by GitHub.
So, unless there's an error you won't
get any output from that command.
And then the last step is
git push origin master.
And the -u is because we have not
pushed from this repository before.
So now if we go back to our GitHub.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We'll
see that file that we pushed,
from just a few minutes ago.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So all this stuff
is definitely a lot to chew on.
There's a really great
free git book out there.
And it's at git-scm.com.
Lots of really good documentation here.
>> Speaker 2: Let's
try git.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yep.
Let's try git.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This is really good,
it's interactive.
Won't go quite as in-depth as we just
went but definitely a good resource.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So we're just
quickly going to brush over branches.
So like I mentioned before, feature
branches are, when you want to work
on something and not disturb this
pristine working copy that you have.
They're really not that interesting
when it's just you working on a project.
But they become really important when
multiple people are working on a project
and committing to the same
repository of the same project.
So at work I have my branch and
Brian has his branch, and
we'll go through the pull-request process.
So that we're not
interfering with each other.
I don't know what his files are and
he doesn't know what my files are and
it really doesn't matter.
So if we go and
make a new branch, and the terminology
here is a little bit un-intuitive.
The command is git checkout, and then -b.
-b is saying git make a new branch and
the name is my branch.
Git will just create a new
one switch you right to it.
And then if you type git branch you'll see
a listing of all your local branches and
git will show a star next to
the one you're currently on.